# Signature Work Portfolio
### Overview
This is a small portfolio of some of my recent work, made for the purpose of finishing my final requirement for a computer science degree at the University of St. Thomas. This will highlight the works and explain the unique circumstances of each project's creation, as well as their purpose and their impact.
### Linear Algebra Application
This was the first time I connected mathematics and computer science. Built in JavaScript, I researched the mathematics behind matrix algebra, and did my best to implement these algorithms without assistance past in some rare cases pseudo-code. I learned a lot about the pure mathematics side of this, and inevitably ran into trouble when it came to eigenvectors and eigenvalues, which require solving polynomials of degree n for an n x n matrix. Exact solutions for these polynomials are not only unknown for degrees of n higher than 4, but prior to that, the mathematics required to solve them becomes obscenely complex, requiring an entire number representation and evaluation library to work with properly. So I compromised, and chose a numerical solver, which has its own drawbacks, as floating point errors accumulate with every operation. Perhaps in the future I can bring this project to an end and properly implement limited exact solutions and reduce floating point error.
https://github.com/f8573/bad-linear-app/tree/main
### Relational Algebra Application
This is much more recent. I took a database class in spring of 2025, and relational algebra was a concept I underprepared for. On the surface, it's not extremely hard or complex, but requires a level of creativity to find elegant solutions to database problems. The most difficult part was converting relational algebra to SQL, but there was a library, RADB, for that, which I modified in accordance to the LaTeX commands used to visualize the relational algebra queries. A user can enter in a query using a mathpad or by typing LaTeX code, and execute it on the database provided. It's unfinished, and I plan to add in step-by-step executions to show what every component of the query does, as well as possibly show how it can be made more efficient. It's more of an educational tool than anything. It's not very common to see, there are only two or three other websites that exist with this idea: I built this to hopefully advance knowledge for those who wish to learn, a pillar of the St. Thomas mission.
https://github.com/f8573/bad-linear-app/tree/main
### Calendar Application
This was a project I built for a job application. Nothing too fancy, but I built it with the intent of someone actually using it. I used MongoDB, a NoSQL database, to store information, as opposed to PostGreSQL or SQLite, since I had never used this type of database before and wanted to learn how it actually functioned. I tried to follow good UI/UX practices and build it similarly to Microsoft Calendar, and I also built in a user system (in the event I make calendars shareable sometime in the future) to save data about calendar events and also to implement security practices when storing confidential data. It helped me get my first internship, as I demoed it during the interview, and my interviewer thought it seemed interesting.
https://github.com/f8573/FS-calendar
